Serotonin and norepinephrine are chemical messengers used
by nerve cells to communicate.
Although the exact effect of these chemicals
on brain function isn't fully understood,
they are involved in controlling pain,
pleasure, anxiety, sleep and emotional behaviors.
Serotonin and norepinephrine pass from cell to cell
by binding to receptors on nearby cells
to deliver messages.
Nerve cells control the amount of serotonin and norepinephrine
traveling between the cells.
They are recycled by cells
in a process called reuptake.
Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors or SNRIs,
effect serotonin levels used to communicate
between nerve cells.
By preventing the cells from recycling serotonin and norepinephrine
allowing them more time to relay the message.
Changing the balance of serotonin in the brain
seems to help nerve cells send and receive
chemical messages, which in turn
boosts mood and reduces anxiety.